Maybe the game starts with a black screen that explains what happened
A cutscene of the player crawling on a cliffside under the hometown
x You start the game in a cave, in a jungle
It's night, and rainy, with thunder
You were out climbing/hiking and fell down a cliff
You stayed the night in the cave (is it possible to do a fire animation thing? Campfire)
x You have no pokemon
x As you try to escape, a suspicious man calls your name from between the trees
x He tries to sell you a Mankey - you have no money
x He gives it to you for free, says he needs to get it off his hands, and he runs off
x Turns out, it's just a normal monkey (Add monkey pokemon)
x A cutscene plays: You try to leave it, but it follows you. You walk, it follows, you look back, it pretends to look the other way.. You start running, it starts running, and eventually it bites you
x You are now infected and need an antidote. The monkey runs off
The screen flashes, maybe green hue? 
You stumble across a jungle hut where a woman makes an antidote for you.
Extra: You have nightmares of the monkey biting you
when you wake up, that is when you get infected 
You feel better.
She requests that you go out and find an item for her as a reward. 
She lends you her Seaking so you can get up the waterfall and back home again. Some kind of one-way thing at the top of the waterfall where you give the Seaking back
Your home town is at the top of the cliff
You are now home and can talk to professor
The jungle valley overflows and allows you to go new places with surf. You fix it in the wastewater treatment facility

You are incapacitated for some reason, and your pokemon needs to go out and find medicine for you, or save you. Maybe you get stuck in a cave and you throw your pokeball through a small crack to go and get help, and then you control the pokemon.
Spooky guy who calls you on your phone, asks to meet up. Some kind of trainer battle maybe? 
Could be cool to add a trick house like in RSE
Push rocket grunt into a hole with Strength and walk over him
